{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 SFPro-Light;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 SFPro-Regular_wdth_opszF0000_wght;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red48\green6\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue254;\red240\green241\blue244;\red255\green255\blue255;\red155\green163\blue178;\red135\green185\blue102;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0\c49804\cname secondaryLabelColor;\cssrgb\c24823\c2906\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c99817\c0;\cssrgb\c95294\c95686\c96471;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000\c0;\cssrgb\c67166\c69917\c74931;\cssrgb\c59570\c76423\c47307;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}}
{\info
{\title PlayEm Credits}
{\author Till Toenshoff}
{\*\copyright Copyright 2025, Till Toenshoff}
{\keywords credits}}\margl1440\margr1440\vieww43980\viewh23640\viewkind0
\pard\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx80\tx280\tx440\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \
Acknowledgements\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs20 \cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Tempo detection by Aubio 0.4.9\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Key detection by KeyFinder 2.2.8\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Tags by TagLib 2.1.1\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Chapters by ChapterForge 0.13\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs30 \cf4 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs72 \cf4 \cb5 \uc0\u55356 \u57260 
\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  Genesis: From Life Detours to Audio Adventures\

\fs20 In the stormy wake of a divorce back in 2021\'962022, I needed something to anchor myself. Something immersive. Something that could pull me so deep into the zone that the noise outside would fade into irrelevance.\
That \'93something\'94 became PlayEm.\
I've always had a habit\'97some might call it a compulsion\'97of building audio players. From the golden days of the Commodore 64 to the Atari ST, and through the decades across Windows, Linux, NeXTSTEP, iOS, and macOS, I\'92ve been coding my own way to listen to music. Because for me, music isn\'92t just background\'97it\'92s atmosphere, mood, escape. It\'92s the heartbeat of my day.\
So it only made sense that I\'92d build a music player just for me. But not just any player\'97an opinionated one. One tailored not to the generic \'93play song, skip song\'94 pattern, but to how I actually consume music: long-form electronic DJ sets, not bite-sized tracks. That one difference alone has guided every feature and design decision in PlayEm.
\fs24 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs72 \cf4 \cb5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u55358 \u56800 
\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  Building the Beat: Features with Feeling
\f1\fs30 \cb5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Once the bones of the player were in place, it was time for the soul: visuals.\
The earliest visualizations were crafted in CoreAnimation, with a laser focus (pun intended) on creating the most stunning audio scope I could. It had to be spline-based, super-fast, and open to rich visual feedback effects. That\'92s where things got geeky\'97in the best possible way.\
The heart of it? A spline algorithm running in Metal Shader Language. Wildly over-engineered? Probably. But completely worth it. Most of the animation work is split between CoreImage and CoreAnimation, which are blisteringly fast and ideal for real-time audio visualization.\
Stylistically, PlayEm leans heavily into an early '80s amber monitor vibe, which pairs beautifully with the texture feedback visuals\'97giving the whole interface a warm, analog glow that feels both retro and futuristic.
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs30 \cf4 \cb5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs72 \cf4 \uc0\u55358 \u56641 
\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  Feel the Rhythm: Beat Detection & Visual Sync
\f1\fs30 \cf4 \cb5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Then came the next frontier: beat timing.\
Beat detection is a notoriously gnarly problem, but one that\'92s already been tackled by countless DJ tools. After some deep dives and trial runs with open-source libraries, Aubio emerged as a strong contender. Still, it didn\'92t quite nail my use case\'97it lacked a constant beat assumption, which is actually true for 99.9999% of the tracks I listen to.\
The eureka moment came from poking around in the Mixxx source code (bless open-source). There, I found an elegant implementation built around the Queen Mary (not Queens College!) beat detection algorithm, beautifully optimized for consistency. I adapted and extended that idea, adding bar detection for an extra layer of timing intelligence.\
This rhythm-awareness unlocked a wave of beat-synced animations\'97like the \'93dancing cover art\'94 on the song detection panel, a quirky but surprisingly delightful feature. At the moment, my biggest limit is my lacking creativity. I finally have all the tools at hand to do really funky stuff, yet no really new ideas manifest. I\'92ve recently discovered Synesthesia - amazing tool - I may at some point start borrowing some of their shaders. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs30 \cf4 \cb5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs72 \cf6 \cb1 \uc0\u55356 \u57255 
\f1\fs30 \cf4 \cb5  
\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Shazam on Steroids
\f1\fs30 \cb5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Speaking of detection: PlayEm does it different from Apple\'92s built-in Shazam engine. It goes one step further by constantly feeding the mix into Shazam and updating results in real-time. In a mix of tracks where ID\'92ing a song can be a chore, this has proven immensely helpful. But why stop here? Now that we know which song was currently playing, wouldn\'92t it great if we could  persist that information in the file so that in the end, the audio file contains the entire track list of the set? Well, that is what PlayEm now does with M4A audio files. The individual title, artist and cover image of an identified song will get stored within the M4A file itself. One beautiful side effect is that any player from Apple and others will actually show those track titles - you can even jump directly to specific song that way. But why stop here? The next barrier was detecting a track list while improving the noisy results Shazam offers. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs30 \cf4 \cb5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs72 \cf4 \uc0\u55357 \u56999 
\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  Limits, Frustrations & The Road Ahead
\f1\fs30 \cb5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs20 \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Let\'92s get real for a second\'97PlayEm isn\'92t perfect. It\'92s a personal proof of concept, not a polished commercial product.\
For starters, it still depends on Music.app for its library. Yes, it can write metadata changes\'85 but don\'92t expect Music.app to play nice and instantly show those edits. Apple didn\'92t design it with third-party players in mind.\
Also: no streaming. Files must be local. No Apple Music, no Spotify, no SoundClound. Challenge is that those streaming services do, if offering an API at all, not allow a custom player to access the raw sample, essential for visualizing.\
The current architecture expects to fully load and decode a track before doing any of the juicy analysis and visualization. Streaming support would require a full-on re-architecture, and let\'92s just say\'85 not today.\
I\'92ve toyed with adding a local database to make PlayEm more independent, especially since Music.app won\'92t support attributes like musical key. That\'92s likely coming in the future\'97just not this release.\
I also experimented with tempo-shifting while maintaining key using Rubberband, but it didn\'92t quite gel with the existing system\'97especially when dealing with percussive-heavy tracks. That one\'92s on the back burner too.\
Volume adaptation depending on the average volume and / or metadata from the file itself is something I felt a proper player needs to have while PlayEm currently does not. \
Some more ideas I had but quickly put to a deep freezer: \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Multi Room Audio - those Apple engineers do not want applications to support that. Market dominators like Sonos equally do not share any of their technology with OSS developers and thus there is no way to go for PlayEm at the moment.\
\pard\tx560\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs30 \cf4 \cb5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs72 \cf6 \cb1 \uc0\u55356 \u57242 \u65039 
\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  Is It a DJ App?
\f1\fs30 \cb7 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf2 No\'85 just looks a bit like one. PlayEm has the vibe of a DJ mixing app\'97beat detection, synced visuals, track analysis\'97but it can't play two tracks at once, and there\'92s no cueing or mixing interface.\
So what is PlayEm?\
It's my personal playground for building something beautiful and functional. A tool built not for mass adoption, but for deep personal immersion. It\'92s where I experiment, tinker, and lose myself in the music.
\fs30 \cf8 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb5 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs72 \cf9 \cb7 \uc0\u55356 \u57088 
\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 TL;DR
\f1\fs30 \cb7 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0
\f0\fs20 \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}PlayEm is a mostly handcrafted, opinionated audio player made for DJ set lovers\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}It features funky visuals, beat-aware animations, and real-time song identification\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}It\'92s not a DJ app, but has many DJ-flavored features\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}And ultimately, it\'92s a passion project\'97born from personal necessity, shaped by curiosity, and driven by rhythm\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf2  
\fs30 \cf4 \cb5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx0\tx0\tx0\tx80\tx280\tx440\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
Stay tuned. The beat goes on!\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs30 \cf4 \cb5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs72 \cf6 \cb1 \uc0\u55357 \u56459 
\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  Credits\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0
\fs20 \cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}My ex-wife - you started this\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}My ex-girlfriend - you made this even better\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}My mom - miss you so much\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}My amazingly cool daughter - love you a lot\
}